---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1"
date:   2016-01-24 15:18:14
categories: CS373
---

The first week of class was rather uneventful: mainly buying textbooks,
adding/dropping courses, and getting used to the routines of all my
classes. In Software Engineering, we mainly went over some basic Python
code as a class. The professor would call on random students to answer
questions about the code. It is obvious that participation will be
important for this class, as well as knowledge of Python. I've known some
Python for a while now so I don't think that will be an issue.

This semester will be especially challenging for me. As someone hoping to
graduate this May, this semester I am trying to fulfill the rest of my degree
requirements. For me this means courses outside of the Computer Science
Department. The biggest issue I foresee is staying engaged in all my classes,
even the ones I am less interested in.

Next week classes will be moving faster so I plan to start on readings and
assignments, such as the Collatz lab for this class.

On another note, I was reminded this week that software is created by people
and as a result it isn't perfect. To install Jekyll I used RubyGems, the
package manager for the Ruby programming language. Instead of installing
Jekyll directly, I installed the 'github-pages' gem (Ruby package), which 
includes Jekyll as a dependency. Jekyll requires a Javascript environment on
your system such as Node.js or the 'therubyracer' gem. This however was not
included in the dependency tree of github-pages, which was somewhat annoying.

###Tip of the Week###
[cmocka - Unit Testing for C](https://cmocka.org)\\
I discovered this over the summer. Since I do a lot of C programming for fun I
found this pretty useful.

